---
title: Tag Sorting
description: How tags are sorted and how to configure them.
---

# Tag Sorting

Once tags are [deduped](/guide/guides/handling-duplicates), they will be sorted. Sorting the tags is important
to ensure critical tags are rendered first, as well as allowing you to have tags in a specific order that you need them in.

For example, if you need to preload an asset, you'll need this to come before the asset itself. Which is a bit of a challenge
when the tags are nested.

## Sorting Logic

Sorting is done in multiple steps:
- order critical tags first
- order by provided `tagPriority`
- order by natural order they were registered

### Critical Tags

The following critical tags have their own default `tagPriority`:

- **-2** - `&lt;meta charset ...&gt;`
- **-1** - `&lt;base&gt;`
- **0** - `&lt;meta http-equiv=&quot;content-security-policy&quot; ...&gt;`
- **1** - `<title>`

All other tags have a default priority of 10: &lt;meta&gt;, &lt;script&gt;, &lt;link&gt;, &lt;style&gt;, etc

## `tagPriority`

You can also set custom priorities for tags using the `tagPriority` attribute.

The following aliases exist:
- `tagPriority: 'critical'` - **2**
- `tagPriority: 'high'` - **9**
- `tagPriority: 'low'` - **11**

Otherwise, you can either provide a number or a string beginning with `before:` or `after:` and target a tag key.

### Sort by number

When providing a number, refer to the priorities set for critical tags above.

```ts
// some layout we have a js file that is ran
useHead({
  script: [
    {
      src: '/not-important-script.js',
    },
  ],
})

// but in our page we want to run a script before the above
useHead({
  script: [
    {
      src: '/very-important-script.js',
      tagPriority: 0,
    },
  ],
})

// <script src=\"/very-important-script.js\"></script>
// <script src=\"/not-important-script.js\"></script>
```


### Sort with `before:` and `after:`

When providing a string, you can use `before:` or `after:` to target a tag key.

Tag keys are prefixed with their tag name to avoid dedupe collisions, so you need to use the form of `{tagName}:{key}`.

```ts
useHead({
  script: [
    {
      key: 'not-important',
      src: '/not-important-script.js',
    },
  ],
})
useHead({
  script: [
    {
      // script is the tag name to target, `not-important` is the key we're targeting
      tagPriority: 'before:script:not-important',
      src: '/must-be-first-script.js',
    },
  ],
})
// <script src=\"/must-be-first-script.js\"></script>
// <script src=\"/not-important-script.js\"></script>
```

### Hydration Caveats

When hydrating the state, either through mounting a SSR document or switching between pages, the package is dealt with a problem.

How to handle previously rendered tags that need to be replaced? 

To do so Unhead will simply replace the tag in its current position. This provides a nicer UX with less
tags jumping around.

This means that the `tagPriority` may not be honoured when hydrating. 
